# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

##### Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?
In the console.rb file, where properties 1,2 and 3 are created fill a hash into a new Property object.

##### Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?
Within the sql variable that is added within the save method at line 18 of property.rb.

##### Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?
4, 13, 22, 31, 33

##### Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?
The id is set as a serial and primary key in the sql file so it will be automatically assigned on creation.

##### Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?
Within the initialize method that is defined on line 8, it assigns each new property created an id which will be given out numerically as more are created via the sql setup.

##### Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?
To allow the creation of an object without an id (created by database), but allows us to model the id in our code.

##### Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?
Instance variables require creation of the objects and use of instance variables for updating and saving. Whereas the class methods are being used to search for/create something that may not exist, for example it may be used simply to clear the whole table in the delete_all method.

##### Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?
A PostGres Result Object. (Array like object with things like Tuples = etc etc)

##### Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?
It makes things much faster when updating/saving multiple objects. Also it helps protect against sql injection attacks.

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

##### Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?
"find_by_id" takes in an id on the database to search for. "find_by_address" takes in an address to query the address field in the database.

##### Q11. What are their return values?
"find_by_id" will return a new Property object which has the property hash found if the id exists.
"find_by_address" will return nil if the address doesnt exist or will return a new Property object with the hash that has been created from what it found.
